#The forward tag

**Syntax 1**

>[:forward "*a_uri*" /]

Forwards to the given URI. The content following the forward tag won't be generated.

> Notice: the tag must end with `/]`.

**Syntax 2**

>[:forward *method_name* *name1*="*value1*" *name2*="*value2*" /]

Or,

>[:forward *method_name* *name1*="*value1*" *name2*="*value2*"]  
>&nbsp;&nbsp;[:var *name3*]  
>&nbsp;&nbsp;...any content including the include, for, and other tags  
>&nbsp;&nbsp;[/var]  
>[/forward]

Forwards the content generated by the given method, which is usually another RSP template. The content following the forward tag won't be generated.

The attributes specify the values for the additional named parameters. You can specify an expression ([[=expression]](=.md)) as the attribute's value.

You can also use [[:var]](var.md) to assign the dynamical generated content such as:

    [:forward foo flag="[=true]"]
      [:var detail]
        <h2>The details</h2>
        [:include "details.html"/]
      [/var]
    [/forward]

In the above example, we assume `flag` and `detail` are two named parameters of the `foo` closure. In addition, `flag` is `bool` and `detail` is `String`:

    void foo(HttpConnect connect, {bool flag, String detail}) {
      ...

As shown, you can put any content in [[:var]](var.md).

==Differences between include and forward==

1. The RSP page returns immediately after [[:forward]](forward.md) executes. In the other words, none of the succeeding content will be rendered to the output after [[:forward]](forward.md).

2. Any updates to HTTP headers in the included page will be ignored, while the forwarded page is allowed to update the headers. Thus, it is OK to write any content before and after [[:include]](include.md). It also implies before calling [[:forward]](forward.md), no content shall be output. Otherwise, it will cause an exception if the forwarded page updates the HTTP headers.
