#The include tag

##Syntax 1

>[:include "*a_uri*" *name1*="*value1*" *name2*="*value2*" /]

Includes the given URI.

The URI can contain a query string. Furthermore, the arguments, if any, will be appended to it as part of the query string. You can retrieve them by use of [HttpRequest.queryParameters](dart:io).

> Notice that the tag must end with `/]`.

##Syntax 2

>[:include *method_name* *name1*="*value1*" *name2*="*value2*" /]

Or,

>[:include *method_name* *name1*="*value1*" *name2*="*value2*"]  
>&nbsp;&nbsp;[:var *name3*]  
>&nbsp;&nbsp;...any content including the include, for, and other tags  
>&nbsp;&nbsp;[/var]  
>[/include]

Includes the content generated by the given method, which is usually another RSP template. The attributes specify the values for the additional named parameters. You can specify an expression ([[=expression]](=.md)) as the attribute's value.

You can also use [[:var]](var.md) to assign the dynamical generated content such as:

    [:include foo flag="[=true]"]
      [:var detail]
        <h2>The details</h2>
        [:include "details.html"/]
      [/var]
    [/include]

In the above example, we assume `flag` and `detail` are two named parameters of the `foo` closure. In addition, `flag` is `bool` and `detail` is `String`:

    void foo(HttpConnect connect, {bool flag, String detail}) {
      ...

As shown, you can put any content in [[:var]](var.md). It allows you to define page fragments which can be assembled into a complete page at runtime. For more information, please refer to [Templating: Composite View Pattern](../Fundamentals/Templating-_Composite_View_Pattern.md).

##Differences between include and forward

1. The RSP page returns immediately after [[:forward]](forward.md) executes. In the other words, none of the succeeding content will be rendered to the output after [[:forward]](forward.md).

2. Any updates to HTTP headers in the included page will be ignored, while the forwarded page is allowed to update the headers. Thus, it is OK to write any content before and after [[:include]](include.md). It also implies before calling [[:forward]](forward.md), no content shall be output. Otherwise, it will cause an exception if the forwarded page updates the HTTP headers.
